My dear young lady my dear young lady you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was and what has frightened you my dear young lady
But his voice was just a little too coaxing. He overdid it. I was keenly on my guard against him.
I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing I answered. But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran out again. Oh it is so dreadfully still in there
Only that said he looking at me keenly.
Why what did you think I asked.
Why do you think that I lock this door
I am sure that I do not know.
It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do you see He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
I am sure if I had known 
Well then you know now. And if you ever put your foot over that threshold again here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage and he glared down at me with the face of a demon Ill throw you to the mastiff.
I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room. I remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I thought of you Mr Holmes. I could not live there longer without some advice. I was frightened of the house of the man of the woman of the servants even of the child. They were all horrible to me. If I could only bring you down all would be well. Of course I might have fled from the house but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears. My mind was soon made up. I would send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak went down to the office which is about half a mile from the house and then returned feeling very much easier. A horrible doubt came into my mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose but I remembered that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that evening and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had any influence with the savage creature or who would venture to set him free. I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you. I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this morning but I must be back before three oclock for Mr and Mr. Rucastle are going on a visit and will be away all the evening so that I must look after the child. Now I have told you all my adventures Mr Holmes and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means and above all what I should do.
Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. My friend rose now and paced up and down the room his hands in his pockets and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
Is Toller still drunk he asked.
Yes. I heard his wife tell Mr. Rucastle that she could do nothing with him.
That is well. And the Rucastles go out to night
Yes.
Is there a cellar with a good strong lock
Yes the wine cellar.
You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl Miss Hunter. Do you think that you could perform one more feat I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman.
I will try. What is it
We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven oclock my friend and I. The Rucastles will be gone by that time and Toller will we hope be incapable. There only remains Mr. Toller who might give the alarm. If you could send her into the cellar on some errand and then turn the key upon her you would facilitate matters immensely.
I will do it.
Excellent We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of course there is only one feasible explanation. You have been brought there to personate someone and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber. That is obvious. As to who this prisoner is I have no doubt that it is the daughter Miss Alice Rucastle if I remember right who was said to have gone to America. You were chosen doubtless as resembling her in height figure and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off very possibly in some illness through which she has passed and so of course yours had to be sacrificed also. By a curious chance you came upon her tresses. The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers possibly her fiance and no doubt as you wore the girls dress and were so like her he was convinced from your laughter whenever he saw you and afterwards from your gesture that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her. So much is fairly clear. The most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child.
What on earth has that to do with it I ejaculated.
My dear Watson you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents. Dont you see that the converse is equally valid. I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children. This childs disposition is abnormally cruel merely for crueltys sake and whether he derives this from his smiling father as I should suspect or from his mother it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power.
I am sure that you are right Mr Holmes cried our client. A thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it. Oh let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature.
We must be circumspect for we are dealing with a very cunning man. We can do nothing until seven oclock. At that hour we shall be with you and it will not be long before we solve the mystery.
We were as good as our word for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches having put up our trap at a wayside public house. The group of trees with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun were sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door step.
Have you managed it asked Holmes.
A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. That is Mr. Toller in the cellar said she. Her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug. Here are his keys which are the duplicates of Mr Rucastles.
You have done well indeed cried Holmes with enthusiasm. Now lead the way and we shall soon see the end of this black business.
We passed up the stair unlocked the door followed on down a passage and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar. Then he tried the various keys in the lock but without success. No sound came from within and at the silence Holmes face clouded over.
I trust that we are not too late said he. I think Miss Hunter that we had better go in without you. Now Watson put your shoulder to it and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in.
It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength. Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was no furniture save a little pallet bed a small table and a basketful of linen. The skylight above was open and the prisoner gone.
There has been some villainy here said Holmes this beauty has guessed Miss Hunters intentions and has carried his victim off.
But how
Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it. He swung himself up onto the roof. Ah yes he cried heres the end of a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it.
But it is impossible said Miss Hunter the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away.
He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair. I think Watson that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready.
The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room a very fat and burly man with a heavy stick in his hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
You villain said he wheres your daughter
The fat man cast his eyes round and then up at the open skylight.
It is for me to ask you that he shrieked you thieves Spies and thieves I have caught you have I You are in my power. Ill serve you He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
Hes gone for the dog cried Miss Hunter.
I have my revolver said I.
